I found OOA to be helpful for working on this project. It made it easier to digest the whole problem by breaking it down into smaller pieces. This way, I could focus on each part separately and then put them together more effortlessly in the end. It kept the code organized and made it simpler to understand. Plus, it helped me avoid repeating code early on because I already outlined the structure to account for shared functionality.
Now, I do feel like the return on investment of time kind of stopped at OOA. After that, the OOD was pretty straightforward, and I think the time spent on writing that part could have been better used for actual programming. But, I'm sure this could be different for more complex projects where OOD would play a vital part in finding the best way to attack a problem. So it's still probably a good idea to practice this approach for the future.
The only majorly challenging part of this project for me was using the Scanner class to import existing data via IO redirection in the terminal. Handling the stream all at once (so I don't know how many lines there are in total) was new to me, so it took a lot of trial and error to find that get it right. But it was worth it in the end because I learned a new method of doing input/output in Java.
As for more general reflection on this project, I'm glad I got the chance to experiment with less familiar logical strategies. For example, I got the chance to use enums for values that can only be certain things, like the search type of ALL/TITLE/AUTHOR or the item conditions NEW/USED. I have a better sense of enums and how they can be used in programming.
I also got the opportunity to use ternary operators in some of the methods, which was another convenient feature to use. And besides the struggle with getting the Scanner to read lines properly, actually managing to handle all the importing data logic and getting that and other things to work the first time was very satisfying. So overall, this was pretty fun and rewarding.